---
script: Qa05
abbr_short: je
name: Jenticha
family: Indic
type: alphabet
whitespace: between words
open_type_tag: none
complex_positioning: unknown
requires_font: false
unicode: true
diacritics: true
contextual_forms: true
status: Current
baseline: hanging
ligatures: required
direction: ltr
direction_notes: "LTR (left-to-right)"
translations:
  - translation_iso: ara
    name: خط جينتيتشا
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: ben
    name: জেন্তিচা লিপি
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: deu
    name: Jenticha-Schrift
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: fra
    name: jenticha
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: hin
    name: जेन्तिचा लिपि
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: ind
    name: aksara Jenticha
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: jpn
    name: ジェンティチャ文字
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: kor
    name: 젠티차 문자
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: por
    name: Escrita jenticha
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: rus
    name: письмо джентича
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: spa
    name: jenticha
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: zho
    name: 真蒂查文
    auto: true
---

The Jenticha script (also known as *Kõits script* is used for writing Sunuwar, a Tibeto-Burman language spoken by 40,000 people in eastern Nepal and by an unknown number in Sikkim, India. It is recognized in Sikkim as the Sunwar script, and is taught in schools in the area and used for translating the proceedings of the Sikkim legislative assembly into Sunuwar. Jenticha is also used to print a Sunuwar newspaper, for anthologies of Sunuwar poetry, and for academic works. The language can also be written in the Devanagari and Tikamuli scripts.

 The Jenticha script is named after its inventor, Krishna Bahadur Jenticha, who created it in 1942. The shapes of some Jenticha letters appear to have been based on Limbu and Latin characters, although it has no genetic relationship to any other writing system. The script is an alphabet with some alphasyllabic features.

 Twenty-five consonant letters are used, all of which bear an inherent a vowel except for the glottal stop. This vowel can be changed by writing a vowel letter after the consonant; dependent vowel diacritics are not used. The inherent vowel can also be silenced using a *virama* character. Consonant clusters are written using either the *virama* or a half form of the initial letter(s).

 At the time of its creation, the script was a pure alphabet and did not exhibit these alphasyllabic features.

 *This script is not currently recognized by the ISO 15924 standard, but is included in ScriptSource for research purposes. If you have any information on this script, please add the information to this site. Your contributions can be a great help in refining and expanding the ISO 15924 standard. The Script Encoding Initiative is working to support the inclusion of this script in the standard, and contributions here will support their efforts.*
