---
script: Qa15
abbr_short: ri
name: Raina Kama (Hausa)
family: African
type: alphabet
whitespace: unspecified
open_type_tag: none
complex_positioning: unknown
requires_font: false
unicode: true
status: Historical
baseline: bottom
ligatures: unspecified
direction: ltr
direction_notes: "LTR (left-to-right)"
translations:
  - translation_iso: ara
    name: خط راينا كاما
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: ben
    name: রাইনা কামা লিপি
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: deu
    name: Raina-Kama-Schrift
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: fra
    name: alphabet raina kama
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: hin
    name: राइना कामा लिपि
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: ind
    name: alfabet Raina Kama
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: jpn
    name: ライナ・カマ文字
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: kor
    name: 라이나 카마 문자
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: por
    name: Alfabeto raina kama
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: rus
    name: алфавит райна кама
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: spa
    name: alfabeto raina kama
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: zho
    name: 雷纳卡马字母
    auto: true
---

Raina Kama was the name of a *soyayya* (love stories) writers’ circle which was formed as part of an “explosion of cultural productions” (Barber, p430) in Nigeria between about 1987 and 2000. During this period, a number of young writers, possibly in response to a recent influx of Bollywood films and English-language romance novels, began producing *soyayya* literature which was unlike previous genres of Hausa prose writing. These books tended to be no more than 100 pages and until the late 1990s were associated with particular writers’ circles to which the authors belonged.

 Raina Kama was one of the main writers’ circles. They tended to write in the Arabic or the Latin scripts, but in an effort to strengthen Hausa culture, they also promoted the use of a new alphabetic orthography using signs that were unlike either Arabic or Latin characters. Some early texts published by Raina Kama included a few handwritten pages in this script, although it never became popular. The script is not believed to be in current use.

 *This script is not currently recognized by the ISO 15924 standard, but is included in ScriptSource for research purposes. If you have any information on this script, please add the information to this site. Your contributions can be a great help in refining and expanding the ISO 15924 standard. The Script Encoding Initiative is working to support the inclusion of this script in the standard, and contributions here will support their efforts.*
