---
script: Qa58
abbr_short: nn
name: Nandinagari
family: Indic
type: abugida
whitespace: between words
open_type_tag: none
complex_positioning: unknown
requires_font: false
unicode: true
diacritics: true
status: Historical
baseline: unspecified
ligatures: unspecified
direction: ltr
direction_notes: "LTR (left-to-right)"
fonts:
  - name: "Noto Sans Nandinagari"
    url: "https://fonts.google.com/noto/specimen/Noto+Sans+Nandinagari"
    provider: "Google Fonts"
translations:
  - translation_iso: ara
    name: نانديناغاري
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: ben
    name: নন্দিনাগরী লিপি
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: deu
    name: Nandinagari
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: fra
    name: nandinagari
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: hin
    name: नंदिनागरी लिपि
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: ind
    name: aksara Nandinagari
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: jpn
    name: ナンディナーガリー文字
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: kor
    name: 난디나가리 문자
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: por
    name: Escrita nandinagari
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: rus
    name: нандинагари
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: spa
    name: nandinagari
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: zho
    name: 南迪城文
    auto: true
---

The Nandinagari script was used in South India between the 8th and 19th centuries for writing manuscripts and inscriptions relating to philosophy, science and the arts in the Sanskrit language.

 The script is an abugida, closely related to the Devanagari script. The character repertoires of both scripts are identical, and the shapes of many characters are similar. However, the script is distinctive in its lack of a connecting headline and in the shapes of most conjuncts and some individual characters. These differences are significant enough that Nandinagari has been proposed separately for encoding in Unicode.

 Nandinagari is written from left to right, with spaces between words. The script includes 34 consonant characters, each representing a syllable with an inherent /a/ vowel; 13 vowel signs, which are added to the consonant to change the inherent vowel; a virama, which can be used to cancel the vowel entirely and 10 vowel characters, which are used to write independent vowels (e.g. at the start of a word, with no preceding consonant to attach to). There is a set of digits from 0-9. Standard Indic punctuation is used as in Devanagari, as are the *anusvara*, *candrabindu* and *visarga* characters. There is also limited evidence of three diacritics used for marking Vedic accents.

 Although the script is no longer used to produce new texts, it is used by scholars specialising in the decipherment and preservation of ancient manuscripts. It is also used by students of the Hindu shastras (sacred Vedic texts), particularly students of Madhva Vaishnavism (the Hindu reformer Sri Madhvacharya’s interpretation of the Vedas, espousing a monotheistic veneration of Vishnu).

 *This script is not currently recognized by ISO 15924*
