---
script: Qa61
abbr_short: dh
name: Dhives Akuru
family: Indic
type: abugida
whitespace: unspecified
open_type_tag: none
complex_positioning: unknown
requires_font: false
unicode: true
diacritics: true
split_graphs: true
status: Historical
baseline: unspecified
ligatures: required
direction: ltr
direction_notes: "LTR (left-to-right)"
translations:
  - translation_iso: ara
    name: ديهفس أكورو
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: ben
    name: ধিবেস আকুরু
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: deu
    name: Dives Akuru
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: fra
    name: dhives akuru
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: hin
    name: धिवेस अकुरु
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: ind
    name: aksara Dhives Akuru
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: jpn
    name: ディヴェス・アクル文字
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: kor
    name: 디베스 아쿠루 문자
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: por
    name: Escrita Dhives Akuru
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: rus
    name: дивес акуру
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: spa
    name: Dhives Akuru
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: swa
    name: Dhives Akuru
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: urd
    name: ڈھیویس اکورو رسم الخط
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: zho
    name: 迪维希阿库鲁文
    auto: true
---

Dhives Akuru (literally “island letters”) was used for writing the Maldivian language prior to the adoption of the Thaana script for this purpose. Dhives Akuru descended from the southern Brahmi family of scripts. The development of the script can be divided into three periods. Initially it was very similar to the Grantha script from which it was derived, then, around the 12th century, it developed into what is known as Evela Akuru, which is essentially an archaic form of Dhives Akuru. The script in its latest form developed around the 14th century, and was widely used until the early 18th century, when it began to be supplanted by the Thaana script. The two scripts were used synchronously for some time, but by the early 19th century Dhives Akuru had all but died out, with only a few atolls (groups of islands) in the south of the country reportedly using it as late as the early 1900s. The two scripts are genetically unrelated and bear very little resemblance to each other, aside from the shapes of a few Thaana characters which appear to have been based on Dhives Akuru characters.

 Dhives Akuru is written from left to right. As would be expected given its derivation from Brahmi, it is an abugida, with each consonant letter representing a syllable containing an inherent vowel. This vowel can be changed by the addition of a vowel diacritic. The script includes 27 consonant letters; 10 independent vowel letters (for writing vowels that are not preceded by a consonant); 10 vowel diacritics; digits from 0-9; and 4 other diacritics: the virama, the candrabindu, a prenasalisation marker, and a gemination marker. Somewhat unusually, the virama sign has been extended to serve a number of other functions as well as its regular vowel-cancellation role. There are five contexts in which the virama is used to mark other phonological—or even semantic—processes; in these contexts the virama fulfills the same functions as the *sukun* character in Thaana orthography.

 *This script is not currently recognized by ISO 15924*
