---
script: Qa68
abbr_short: cx
name: Coorgi-Cox
family: Indic
type: alphabet
whitespace: unspecified
open_type_tag: none
complex_positioning: unknown
requires_font: false
unicode: true
status: Current
baseline: unspecified
ligatures: unspecified
direction: ltr
direction_notes: "LTR (left-to-right)"
translations:
  - translation_iso: ara
    name: أبجدية كورغي كوكس
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: deu
    name: Coorgi-Cox-Alphabet
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: fra
    name: coorgi-cox
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: hin
    name: कूर्गी-कॉक्स लिपि
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: jpn
    name: クールギ・コックス文字
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: kor
    name: 쿠르기-콕스 문자
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: por
    name: Alfabeto coorgi-cox
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: spa
    name: alfabeto coorgi-cox
    auto: true
  - translation_iso: zho
    name: 库尔吉-考克斯字母
    auto: true
---

Coorgi-Cox script was created by the German linguist, Gregg Cox. He formally introduced this script in April 2005. It was developed to write the Kodava language, which is also referred to as Coorgi. Coorgi-Cox is comprised of eight vowels, 26 consonants and a double vowel marker. Each letter represents a different sound. 

 The Kodava language is classified as a Dravidian language that is specifically used in the Kodagu district, or Coorg region, of the Karnataka state in India. Since no traditional written script exists for the Kodava language, Kannada script and the Coorgi-Cox script are used. Currently, there is widespread debate as to whether switching from Kannada script to Coorgi-Cox script would be beneficial or whether switching to a Latin alphabet based writing system would be more useful.

 *This script is not currently recognized by the ISO 15924 standard, but is included in ScriptSource for research purposes. If you have any information on this script, please add the information to this site. Your contributions can be a great help in refining and expanding the ISO 15924 standard. The Script Encoding Initiative is working to support the inclusion of this script in the standard, and contributions here will support their efforts.*
